index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Rachel – Bioinformaticist
---

# Hi, I'm Rachel
Bioinformaticist since 2017. I build robust, researcher-friendly tools that turn complex biological data into clear, reproducible insights.

## About Me
Since 2017, I’ve helped researchers manage and interpret complex biological data, from microbiome (16S) and RNA-seq to CRISPR and viral sequencing. I specialize in building reproducible computational pipelines and interactive analysis tools that bring next-generation sequencing (NGS) data to life.

My primary language is R, and I frequently develop Shiny applications, interactive R Markdown reports, and object-oriented tools using S4. I also work extensively with Bash scripting and high-performance computing environments, managing Linux servers and RShiny deployments for multi-user teams.

My workflow is grounded in transparency and reproducibility. I use Git and Snakemake to create well-documented, version-controlled pipelines that are easy to share, audit, and maintain. I'm especially motivated by the challenge of making complex analyses more accessible to researchers through intuitive design.

---

## Projects

Here are a few highlights of my work and experiments:

- **[Microbiome Shiny App](#)** – A user-friendly tool for exploring 16S amplicon data, including taxonomy filtering and diversity plots.
- **[RNA-seq Pipeline](#)** – A modular Snakemake pipeline with built-in QC, differential expression, and interactive reporting via R Markdown.
- **[CRISPR Screen Explorer](#)** – Interactive R Shiny dashboard for visualizing sgRNA distributions and hit calling results.
<!-- - *(Add links or summaries here as you go — even placeholder pages are fine)* -->

---

## Get in Touch

I’m always happy to connect — whether you're a researcher looking to collaborate, a student with questions, or someone exploring bioinformatics.

- 📫 **Email**: [rachel.rodgers@wustl.edu](mailto:rachel.rodgers@wustl.edu)  
- 💼 **LinkedIn**: [https://www.linkedin.com/in/rachel-rodgers-a73a4121/](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rachel-rodgers-a73a4121/)  
- 🧠 **GitHub**: [github.com/RachelRodgers](https://github.com/RachelRodgers)

---

## Personal Projects

- [NMA Drawing Notes](/nma/) – My study notes and sketches from a drawing fundamentals course  
- [Music Studies](/music/) – Practice logs and reflections as I learn dulcimer and return to flute  
- [My Blog](/blog/) – Thoughts on creativity, learning, and living with curiosity

Commit message:

Modifying basic config and index files.

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Rachel – Bioinformaticist
---

# Hi, I'm Rachel
Bioinformaticist since 2017. I build robust, researcher-friendly tools that turn complex biological data into clear, reproducible insights.

## About Me
Since 2017, I’ve helped researchers manage and interpret complex biological data, from microbiome (16S) and RNA-seq to CRISPR and viral sequencing. I specialize in building reproducible computational pipelines and interactive analysis tools that bring next-generation sequencing (NGS) data to life.

My primary language is R, and I frequently develop Shiny applications, interactive R Markdown reports, and object-oriented tools using S4. I also work extensively with Bash scripting and high-performance computing environments, managing Linux servers and RShiny deployments for multi-user teams.

My workflow is grounded in transparency and reproducibility. I use Git and Snakemake to create well-documented, version-controlled pipelines that are easy to share, audit, and maintain. I'm especially motivated by the challenge of making complex analyses more accessible to researchers through intuitive design.

---

## Projects

Here are a few highlights of my work and experiments:

- **[VariantViewR](https://baldridgeapps.wustl.edu/VirusVariantViewR/)** – RShiny application for viewing output from the VirusVariantViewR Snakemake workflow, a pipeline for the analysis of viral variant information (specifically, murine norovirus CR6 and CW3). This tool was inteneded to give researchers an easy way to view data that is normally spread across many files.
- **[ColorPickR](#)** – Interactive tool for picking colors for bar plots
- **[A Simple R Tutorial](#)** – A Simple tutorial on customizing the label axes in ggplot
<!-- - *(Add links or summaries here as you go — even placeholder pages are fine)* -->

---

## Get in Touch

I’m always happy to connect — whether you're a researcher looking to collaborate, a student with questions, or someone exploring bioinformatics.

- 📫 **Email**: [rachel.rodgers@wustl.edu](mailto:rachel.rodgers@wustl.edu)  
- 💼 **LinkedIn**: [https://www.linkedin.com/in/rachel-rodgers-a73a4121/](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rachel-rodgers-a73a4121/)  
- 🧠 **GitHub**: [github.com/RachelRodgers](https://github.com/RachelRodgers)

---

## Personal Projects

- [NMA Drawing Notes](/nma/) – My study notes and sketches from a drawing fundamentals course  
- [Music Studies](/music/) – Practice logs and reflections as I learn dulcimer and return to flute  
- [My Blog](/blog/) – Thoughts on creativity, learning, and living with curiosity
